---
layout: post
title: "Dončić Drops 60, Lakers Wrap Up Dominant Road Trip"
date: 2026-03-27
---

The Lakers closed out the road trip with three more wins against the Heat, Magic, and Pacers and one loss to the Pistons, continuing to put themselves in position to finish third in the West.

On Thursday, the team traveled to Miami on the second night of a back-to-back. After the tough two games in Houston, I expected to see some of the rotation players take the night off to rest. But despite [reports of the players arriving at their Miami hotel at 5 A.M.](https://www.facebook.com/LakersAllDayEveryday/posts/the-lakers-are-right-back-in-action-tonight-taking-on-the-miami-a-couple-things-/1458805115905780/), the full rotation suited up for this game. The team definitely seemed fatigued in the first half of the game, but in the second half Luka Dončić [scored 39 and finished the game with 60 points](https://www.basketball-reference.com/boxscores/202603190MIA.html), leading the Lakers to an improbable win. This is his highest scoring performance since he became a Laker last February, tying his second-highest scoring game of his career. Dončić’s case for the NBA Most Valuable Player award continues to strengthen as he has made timely shots in clutch situations and has led the Lakers to 13 wins in the last 15 games. Scoring 60 points on the second night of a back-to-back is an incredible feat, and doing so in a game where every point was needed to get the win proves just how valuable Dončić has been to the team.

It has been so much fun to watch how LeBron James has adapted to his new role on the team. While certainly has had to take on a more secondary role in terms of scoring and handling the ball, he has thrived in helping the team in other ways. In this game, for example, Dončić’s 60 point performance has caused LeBron’s triple-double to fly under the radar. After the 2020 championship, it seems that LeBron has been trying to find a teammate to take over the duties as the primary star on the team. Many believed that Anthony Davis was set to take over this position, but I never really saw Davis as someone who could lead a team like James or Dončić. However, it seems that LeBron has finally found someone to take over the responsibilities as the primary ball handler and scorer.

LeBron remains one of the best players in the league, but this new role has given him the best chance to compete for a championship as he continues to get older. There was certainly skepticism about whether ball-dominant players like Dončić, James, and Austin Reaves would work together to play winning basketball. But it is clear that over this last stretch of games, the team is clicking at the right time. As I watch the games, it seems that LeBron is the most invested in the team that he’s been since the 2023 playoffs and has been playing with more joy. The entire team seems to be having fun, and more importantly finding ways to win games.

Saturday’s game against the Orlando Magic was certainly not the best game the team has played. After a solid first half, Dončić shots simply weren’t falling in the second half. Although Reaves contributed 26 points, it was clear that it would be a difficult game to win. Yet somehow down by two with less than three seconds left, the best three-point shooter in the NBA found himself [wide open for three to win the game](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8qyAu7JNvVs) for the Lakers. The Lakers continue to prove that they know how to escape extremely close games with wins. This experience in close games against good teams will be invaluable when the playoffs start.

The loss to the Pistons was a bit worrying, but fatigue from the long road trip likely contributed to the slower defense. The game was close, so I’m not too worried as long as the team continues to focus on making defense a priority. Luckily, the team looked good for most of the game against the Pacers despite having multiple players out with injuries.

The Lakers return to Los Angeles for games against the Nets, Wizards, and Cavs to end the month of March.
