---
layout: post
title: "Lakers Finish Season 53–29, Look Towards Playoffs Without Dončić and Reaves"
date: 2026-04-13
---

Losing your two top scorers to injuries in the same game would be a worst-case scenario for any team. And losing these players less than a month before the playoffs start is even worse.

When Luka Dončić and Austin Reaves suffered injuries sidelining them for the rest of the season and into the playoffs, the Lakers were left scrambling to find a solid rotation that could survive the playoffs until their two top scorers returned. 

This would be a brutal set of circumstances for any team, but because the Lakers’ entire offense is so heavily reliant upon Dončić and Reaves to score, handle the ball, and set up teammates, this situation poses an even greater challenge. [Dončić leads the entire league in usage rate](https://www.basketball-reference.com/leagues/NBA_2026_advanced.html#advanced_stats::usg_pct), a measure of how much a player is involved in their team’s plays. Moreover, Dončić and Reaves combined for [56.8 points per game this season](https://www.basketball-reference.com/teams/LAL/2026.html). In their absence, the team will need to receive contributions from other players to make up these points.

In their first games without Dončić and Reaves, the Lakers lost to the 12-seeded Mavericks and the Thunder. In these games, it was clear that the team was struggling to adjust, as certain role players were slotted into more significant roles. It became clear that Luke Kennard would be needed as a primary ball handler and playmaker, a role drastically different from his typical role as a spot-up three point shooter. In order to survive the playoffs until Dončić or Reaves return, players like Rui Hachimura and Deandre Ayton would have to take on more scoring responsibilities. And finally, LeBron James would once again be called upon to become the number one scoring option while taking on primary playmaking responsibilities as well. It’s a position that he’s been in for almost the entirety of his career, but it is a lot to ask of a 41-year-old.

Ultimately, the team finished the season with a [53-29 record](https://x.com/ArashMarkazi/status/2043521058519883900), securing the fourth seed and home court advantage for the first round of the playoffs against the fifth seed Houston Rockets. They also ended on a three game winning streak as the rotation became more solidified for the playoffs and players began to get more comfortable with their new roles and responsibilities. Hopefully, some of this momentum will carry over into the playoffs, so that there is a chance the Lakers will still be competing by the time Dončić and Reaves are healthy enough to return.

Looking to the first round of the playoffs against the Rockets, the Lakers seem to be the clear underdogs. [Preliminary odds](https://www.vegasinsider.com/nba/playoffs/first-round/series-odds/) have the Lakers +550 to the Rockets’ –800. It’s certainly going to be an uphill battle, but what can the Lakers do to pull off the upset and advance to the conference semifinals?

It will all come down to the team’s defense. It was JJ Redick’s carefully planned defensive schemes that propelled the Lakers to beat the Rockets in two consecutive games in Houston back in March. Now, without their top two scorers to take over the games, getting stops against an athletic Houston Rockets team becomes even more crucial. If the shots just aren’t falling, it will be the defense that keeps the Lakers in the game.

Undoubtedly, the Rockets will strategize to counteract the Lakers’ defensive plans from the March games, so Redick’s ability to adapt and implement new strategies to keep the team in the game will be vital to the team’s success.

LeBron will need to take over in close games and be consistent throughout the series in order to reach the second round without Dončić and Reaves. But he won’t be able to do it alone. Fortunately, Marcus Smart has returned from his injury, giving the team an essential defensive leader and secondary ball handler. Luke Kennard seems to be playing well as a distributor and ball handler in addition to finding his own shots.

Without the points from Dončić and Reaves, the Lakers will need to lead a much more balanced offensive attack. LeBron will assuredly take on the primary scoring role while at least two of the other starters or rotation players will need to have good scoring outputs every game.

All lot will need to go right for the Lakers to advance without Dončić or Reaves. Luka is targeting a [return to the team on Friday](https://www.espn.com/nba/story/_/id/48477183/doncic-return-spain-friday-status-unknown) before Game 1 after receiving specialized treatment in Spain for his hamstring injury in hopes of expediting his return. We could see him return to action before the typical 4-6 week recovery period, but the team should expect to play the entire first round without him. Reaves currently has no timeline for return.

The playoffs are always a fun time of the season. But with unfortunately timed injuries plaguing the team for the past few years around this time in the season, it looks like another challenging playoffs ahead for LeBron and the Lakers.
