---
layout: post
title: "LeBron, Lakers Stun Rockets to Take 3–0 Series Lead"
date: 2026-04-25
---

It has been exactly a week since the playoffs started, and like many other fans, I am completely shocked by the performance of the Lakers this postseason. The Lakers pulled off an impossible comeback late in Game 3 of their first round series against the Houston Rockets before winning in overtime to take a commanding [3-0 series lead](https://www.espn.com/nba/story/_/id/48586084/lebron-james-lakers-storm-back-late-win-ot-commanding-series-lead-vs-rockets). They became just the [second team to overcome a deficit of six or more points with less than 30 seconds left](google.com/url?q=https://sports.yahoo.com/articles/lebron-james-helped-la-lakers-133000254.html&sa=D&source=docs&ust=1778183335320867&usg=AOvVaw1S5Vtlk92k8xwespAgrpp3) and win the game in the playoffs. As of last night, the Lakers are the only team to have a 3-0 lead in their series, a completely unexpected start to the postseason for experts and fans alike.

As I’ve expressed, with Dončić and Reaves continuing to recover from injuries, the team would have to face a tough uphill battle just to stay alive until their top scorers can return. Virtually all analysts and [experts were convinced that Houston would easily win this series](https://www.espn.com/nba/story/_/id/48477478/2026-nba-playoff-expert-picks-play-first-round-matchups). Many fans across the league, including Lakers fans, were hesitant to give the Lakers any chance.

But even at 41 years old, LeBron James is proving that it is never a good idea to underestimate him.

James is averaging 25.3 points, 9.7 rebounds, and 8.7 assists per game this series, including a [29 point Game 3 performance](https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7228025/2026/04/25/lakers-rockets-lebron-james-game-3/) in which he nailed a clutch three to tie the game and send it to overtime. He is doing exactly what the team consistently needs from him if they were going to have a chance of advancing, proving that he is still one of the best players even in his 23rd season.

But of course, in the absence of Dončić and Reaves, the other players would need to step up to help LeBron. In Game 1 it was Luke Kennard scoring 27, shooting 5-5 from three. In Game 2, Marcus Smart scored 25, adding in 7 assists and 5 steals. As the series shifted to Houston, Rui Hachimura broke out for 22 points including 16 in the first quarter to set the tone for the team for the remainder of the game. 

It has truly been a collective team effort, with different role players stepping up every game to carry some of the scoring responsibilities with LeBron. The effort and attention to detail, especially on the defensive end has allowed the team to shock the entire league with their 3-0 series lead.

JJ Redick has simply outcoached Ime Udoka. Redick deserves a lot of credit for getting the most out of his rotation players without Dončić and Reaves. He has managed to develop a completely rebuilt offense while shutting down the Rockets on defense. Kevin Durant has only played Game 2 for the Rockets, dealing with injuries in Games 1 and 3. But in the game he played, Redick implemented the same defensive scheme that was so effective in their consecutive wins at Houston earlier in the regular season. Durant finished Game 2 with 9 turnovers, as he struggled against the swarming Lakers defense which held him to just [3 points in the second half](https://www.basketball-reference.com/boxscores/202604210LAL.html).

On the other side, the Rockets’ inexperience in the playoffs has been evident. At times, it seems that no one can generate offense, allowing the Lakers to go on huge runs. Of course, Houston is also dealing with injuries, most notably Durant and their point guard Fred VanVleet. The Lakers have been able to capitalize on the opportunities the Rockets are giving them. Outside of Durant, this team lacks significant experience in big playoff moments. In Game 2, the Lakers focused their defense on getting the ball out of Durant’s hands and forcing other players to make plays they aren’t used to making. In Game 3 without Durant, the Rockets’ lack of a true point guard with veteran experience in the playoffs eventually led to their collapse at the end of the game. This is in stark contrast to the playoff experience of LeBron and Marcus Smart, who took over at the end of the fourth quarter and overtime to steal the game away in Houston.

It is safe to say that the Lakers have significantly outperformed expectations in the playoffs so far. [Austin Reaves seems to be approaching a return to play](https://lakersnation.com/lakers-injury-report-austin-reaves-kevin-durant-questionable-for-game-4/), which could give the team additional help on the offensive end. But the 3-0 lead could provide more flexibility for the team in terms of the recovery timelines for Dončić and Reaves. LeBron is playing at an incredibly high level right now. Smart is bringing leadership and defensive intensity. Kennard’s on-ball skills as a playmaker continues to prove that he is more than a shooter. Hachimura continues to be a reliable scorer, hitting shots in big moments. Deandre Ayton, Jaxson Hayes, Jarred Vanderbilt, and even Bronny James are all contributing valuable minutes when they are on the floor. 

If the team maintains this high level of play and adds back Dončić and Reaves, they can definitely continue to surprise the league and make a deeper playoff run.
